Add Zamba2 (#34517)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/en/model_doc/zamba2.md

rendered properly in your Markdown viewer.

-->
# Zamba2

Zamba2 is a large language model (LLM) trained by Zyphra, and made available under an Apache 2.0 license. Please see the [Zyphra Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/collections/zyphra/) repository for model weights.

This model was contributed by [pglo](https://huggingface.co/pglo).

## Model details

Zamba2-1.2B, Zamba2-2.7B and Zamba2-7B are hybrid models combining state-space models (Specifically [Mamba](https://github.com/state-spaces/mamba)) and transformer, and were trained using next-token prediction. Zamba2 uses shared transformer layers after every 6 mamba blocks. It uses the [Mistral v0.1 tokenizer](https://huggingface.co/mistralai/Mistral-7B-v0.1). We came to this architecture after a series of ablations at small scales. Zamba2-1.2B, Zamba2-2.7B and Zamba2-7B were pre-trained on 2T and 3T tokens, respectively.

<img src=https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c2cff209-b901-483c-87aa-774b82a0769f width=30% height=40% />

## Quick start

### Presequities

Zamba2 requires you use `transformers` version 4.48.0 or higher:
```bash
pip install transformers>=4.48.0

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
```
missing closing brackets

⚠️ Note that this file is in Markdown but contain specific syntax for our doc-builder (similar to MDX) that may not be
rendered properly in your Markdown viewer.

-->
# Zamba2

Zamba2 is a large language model (LLM) trained by Zyphra, and made available under an Apache 2.0 license. Please see the [Zyphra Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/collections/zyphra/) repository for model weights.

This model was contributed by [pglo](https://huggingface.co/pglo).

## Model details

Zamba2-1.2B, Zamba2-2.7B and Zamba2-7B are hybrid models combining state-space models (Specifically [Mamba](https://github.com/state-spaces/mamba)) and transformer, and were trained using next-token prediction. Zamba2 uses shared transformer layers after every 6 mamba blocks. It uses the [Mistral v0.1 tokenizer](https://huggingface.co/mistralai/Mistral-7B-v0.1). We came to this architecture after a series of ablations at small scales. Zamba2-1.2B, Zamba2-2.7B and Zamba2-7B were pre-trained on 2T and 3T tokens, respectively.

<img src=https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c2cff209-b901-483c-87aa-774b82a0769f width=30% height=40% />

## Quick start

### Presequities

> Zamba2 requires you use `transformers` version 4.46.0 or higher:
> ```bash
> pip install transformers>=4.46.0
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Zamba2 requires you use `transformers` version 4.48.0 or higher:
```bash
pip install transformers>=4.48.0
```
```
